---
title: "Imprint"
date: 2021-12-16T22:35:53Z
draft: false
---

# Imprint

**Name**: Michael Borgmann
**Address**: João de Gales, 9556-296 Monchique, Portugal
**Email**: michaelborgmann@mailbox.org
**Phone**: +351 963 288 749

## VAT Number (NIF)

VAT Identification Number: 234234 (if applicable)

## Content Responsible

Michael Borgmann
João de Gales, 9556-296 Monchique, Portugal

## Liability Disclaimer

### Liability for Content

The content of our pages was created with the utmost care. However, we cannot guarantee the completeness, accuracy, or currentness of the content. As service providers, we are responsible for our own content on these pages in accordance with general laws. However, we are not obligated to monitor transmitted or stored external information or investigate circumstances that indicate illegal activity. Our obligations to remove or block the use of information according to general laws remain unaffected by this.

### Liability for Links

Our website contains links to third-party websites. We have no control over their content and therefore cannot accept responsibility for it. The provider or operator of the linked pages is always responsible for their content. The linked pages were reviewed for possible legal violations at the time of linking, and no illegal content was identified. However, a continuous review of the linked pages without concrete evidence of a legal violation is not reasonable. Upon learning of any legal violations, we will remove such links immediately.

### Copyright

The content and works on these pages created by the site operators are subject to Portuguese copyright law. Reproduction, editing, distribution, or any form of exploitation outside the boundaries of copyright law require the written consent of the respective author or creator. Downloads and copies of this site are only permitted for private, non-commercial use. If content on this site is not created by the operator, the copyrights of third parties are respected. Such content is identified as such. Should you become aware of any copyright infringements, please notify us. We will remove any infringing content immediately.

## Data Protection

The use of our website is usually possible without providing personal data. If personal data (e.g., name, address, or email) is collected, this is always done on a voluntary basis. This data will not be shared with third parties without your explicit consent.

We advise that data transmission over the Internet (e.g., via email) can have security gaps. Complete protection of the data from unauthorized access by third parties is not possible.

The use of contact data provided within the framework of the imprint obligation by third parties for sending unsolicited advertising and informational materials is hereby expressly prohibited. The website operators reserve the right to take legal action in case of unsolicited advertising, such as spam emails.

## Google Analytics (If applicable)

This website uses Google Analytics, a web analytics service provided by Google Inc. ("Google"). Google Analytics uses "cookies," text files stored on your computer that allow an analysis of your use of the website. The information generated by the cookie about your use of the website (including your IP address) will be transmitted to and stored by Google on servers in the USA. Google will use this information to evaluate your use of the website, compile reports on website activity, and provide other services related to website and internet usage. Google may also transfer this information to third parties, where required by law or where such third parties process the information on Google's behalf. Google will not associate your IP address with any other data held by Google. You can prevent the installation of cookies by adjusting the settings of your browser software; however, please note that you may not be able to use all features of this website to their full extent if you do so. By using this website, you consent to the processing of data about you by Google in the manner and for the purposes described above.